## understanding proxymity's render cycle
The proxymity render cycle begin in the [proxymityData object](proxymity-data.md) when a property on it gets changed. This change is detected through the [ES6 Proxy API](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Proxy) and relevant data are updated. When this happens, it triggers a event to be fired that will resolved on the next javascript event cycle similar to Node's process.nextTick(). This means that you are free to make as many changes to the data object without triggering a re-render of the view. This also ensures that when rendering begins, all other data changes by the client code has already concluded.

The rendering process has 3 main phases. The first phase is the pre-event. in this phase, the untargeted {:___:} tags throughout the code is re-rendered. This is for keeping {:___:} tags within the name attributes in sync and why it's rendered first. Because the set up runs on data change, you can re-run any view dependent logic withing the {:___:} tags which will be re-rendered on the next event cycle. This is also the phase where DOM manipulation for adding or removing elements in a foreach repeat happens as well

The second phase is the event distribution phase where events are emitted to their listeners in order of when they were added to the queue and the input fields affected by these events are then made to match. This is also the time when any targeted {:___:} are ran as well. Because of the dependency of the name attribute on the internal contents. a {:___:} code is always ran before the modification of any input fields.

The final phase of the rendering process is to do any clean up related to events. Because the above 2 phases can potentially alter the data again and cause a re-render, this is the phase where the code checks if there are new data updates and if not, it will reset the internal render counter before concluding. This is also what allows the system to forcefully stop any re-renders pass the 3rd iteration within a certain render chain.
